These video tutorials are from lectures or hands-on trainings conducted at Earth
      Engine User Summits and
Earth Outreach digital events
.
Introduction to Earth Engine (condensed)
Learn about Earth Engine from developer advocate Noel Gorelick in this fast-paced intro.
companion slides
code repository
Hands-on Intermediate Training
Topics covered include classification, spectral unmixing and terrain visualization.
Tables and Vectors
Overview of tables and vectors in Earth Engine.  Topics include how to load, manipulate,
      display and analyze vector and tabular data in Earth Engine.
companion slides
Importing and Exporting
Topics covered include importing and exporting Earth Engine data, the command line interface,
      and map publishing.
Classification
Learn all about classifiers (both supervised and unsupervised), training data, test
      data, the dreaded "computed value too large" message, and the awesome linear
      regression reducer.
companion slides
code repository
Topics covered include supervised and unsupervised classification.
Machine Learning
Machine Learning Best Practices
With the pace of modern machine learning, building and
      training neural networks is hard. Learn some best practices and sift through the overwhelming
      amount of information available with a focus on remote sensing.
companion slides
Neural Segmentation
Arguably the most common application of ML to earth observation imagery is pixel level
      segmentation and regression. With neural networks, a whole new set of techniques are possible
      that eclipse existing methods in terms of generality, but come with their own set of
      challenges. Learn applications and training regimens ranging from supervised to fully
      unsupervised.
companion slides
Arrays and Matrices
Overview of array and matrix operations the Earth Engine way.  Topics include linear
      modeling, matrix solving, eigen analysis, covariance reducers.
companion slides
Time Series Analysis
Overview of time series analysis the Earth Engine way.  Topics covered include linear
      modeling, auto-correlation, cross-correlation, auto-regressive models and smoothing.
companion slides
Earth Engine and the Google Cloud Platform
Introduction to interoperability between Earth Engine and the Google Cloud Platform.
companion slides
Google Maps API
Create a "Hello World" Maps API webpage, and learn how to do things like change the
      options (background map type, initial location, etc.), overlay data and KML layers,
      and start to showcase your first Earth Engine maps.
companion slides
Publishing and storytelling with your Earth Engine results
Get an overview of how to use Google's geo tools to tell your stories and share your
      data.  Topics include Google Earth, Google Maps (APIs), My Maps, Tour Builder,
      and Street View.
companion slides
Datasets
Synthetic Aperture Radar (Sentinel-1)
Take a deep dive into one of the more unique datasets in the Earth Engine data catalog. This
      session provides an introduction to Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) data and working with
      scripts analyzing Sentinel-1 SAR data.
companion slides